Add alternative solution to Do You Know Your ABCs Silver (#6150)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/silver/usaco-1135.mdx

id: usaco-1135
source: USACO Silver 2021 US Open
title: Do You Know Your ABCs?
author: Sachet Abeysinghe, Aarav Sethi
---

[Official Analysis (C++, Java)](https://usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob2_silver_open21.html)

> # Solution 1:

Reviewer: no colon

</PySection>

</LanguageSection>

# Solution 2
## Explanation
This solution works by observing that, if you have at least $4$ of the numbers, each value in an $(A, B, C)$ candidate can be found as the difference of two of the input numbers.

For example:
- $(A+B+C) - (A+B) = C$
- $(B+C) - (C) = B$
- $(A+B) - (B) = A$

Some of the candidate values could be invalid. Thus, we take all possible tuples of candidate values and check if this solution of $(A, B, C)$ can create a valid array of $A, B, C, A+B, ..., A+B+C$.

## Implementation
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(T \cdot N^6)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>
```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	int t;
	cin >> t;

	while (t--) {
		int n;
		cin >> n;

		vector<int> vals(n);
		for (int &i : vals) cin >> i;

		set<int> candidates(vals.begin(), vals.end());
		for (int i : vals) {
			for (int j : vals) {
				int diff = i - j;
				if (diff >= 0) candidates.insert(diff);
			}
		}

		vector<int> candidatesVector(candidates.begin(), candidates.end());

		int solutions = 0;
		for (int i = 0; i < candidatesVector.size(); i++)

> 			for (int j = i; j < candidatesVector.size(); j++)

Reviewer: braces

</PySection>

</LanguageSection>

# Solution 2:

> ## Explanation:

Reviewer: remove colons and such

> This solution works by realizing if you take any of the $4$ to $7$ input values, every $A$ $B$ $C$ candiates can be found by subtracting every $N^2$ pairs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This solution works by observing that, if you have at least $4$ of the numbers, each value in an $(A, B, C)$ candidate can be found as the difference of two of the input numbers.
```

For example:
- $(A+B+C) - (A+B) = C$
- $(B+C) - (C) = B$
- $(A+B) - (B) = A$

Because we do not know the values of the input array ahead of time, some of the candidate values could be invalid.

> The next step would be to take all $N^3$ tuples of and check if this solution of $(A, B, C)$ by checking if all the values in the array satisfy $A, B, C, A+B, ..., A+B+C$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of the candidate values could be invalid. Thus, we take all possible tuples of candidate values and check if this solution of $(A, B, C)$ can create a valid array of $A, B, C, A+B, ..., A+B+C$. 
```

also is this N^5? since N^2 candidate values, and we want all triples of them, which is surely N^6

## Implementation:
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(T \cdot N^5)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>
```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	int t;
	cin >> t;

	while (t--) {
		int n;
		cin >> n;

		vector<int> vals(n);
		for (int &i : vals) cin >> i;

		set<int> candidates(vals.begin(), vals.end());
		for (int i : vals) {
			for (int j : vals) {
				int diff = i - j;
				if (diff >= 0) candidates.insert(diff);
			}
		}

		vector<int> candidatesVector(candidates.begin(), candidates.end());

		int solutions = 0;
		for (int i = 0; i < candidatesVector.size(); i++)
			for (int j = i; j < candidatesVector.size(); j++)
				for (int k = j; k < candidatesVector.size(); k++) {
					int a = candidatesVector[i], b = candidatesVector[j],

> 					    c = candidatesVector[k];

Reviewer: just initialize separately

					bool valid = true;

					set<int> possible = {a, b, c, a + b, b + c, a + c, a + b + c};
					for (int x : vals) {
						if (!possible.count(x)) {
							valid = false;
							break;
						}
					}

> 					if (valid) solutions++;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
					solutions += valid;
```
